Add guide for ServiceChain upgrade & hard fork (#467)
klaytn/klaytn-docs: docs/node/service-chain/references/upgrade-and-hard-fork.md

> Klaytn and its ServiceChain has constantly released new versions in order to introduce new features, fix bugs, and support hard forks.

Author: Done, thanks.

> This page shows guides to upgrade ServiceChain binary and activate hard fork in the ServiceChain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page shows guides to upgrade ServiceChain binaries and activate hard forks for your ServiceChain.
```

Author: Done, thank you.

 modules: admin:1.0 debug:1.0 eth:1.0 governance:1.0 istanbul:1.0 klay:1.0 net:1.0 personal:1.0 rpc:1.0 txpool:1.0 web3:1.0

> klay.blockNumber
1234
```
Now, you have to decide an appropriate block number to activate the hard fork. Make sure to have enough number of blocks (which is produced every second) between the current block and the block of hard fork.

## 2. Upgrade the ServiceChain binary <a id="2-upgrade-the-servicechain-binary"></a>

Refer to the [Upgrade](#upgrade) section in this page for instructions on upgrading the ServiceChain binaries. Make sure to keep the ServiceChain nodes down (or stopped) for now. You will restart them after you have activated the hard fork.

## 3. Activate Hard Fork <a id="3-activate-hard-fork"></a>

If you have upgraded the ServiceChain binaries with a version that supports desired hard fork, you can activate the hard fork in the ServiceChain by re-initializing the chain config with updated genesis.

### Update genesis and re-initialize chain config for all ServiceChain nodes <a id="update-genesis-and-re-initialize-chain-config-for-all-servicechain-nodes"></a>

First, specify the hard fork number in the `config` field of `genesis.json`.

> For example, if you are trying to activate the Magma hard fork in your ServiceChan, you should specify the `magmaCompatibleBlock` in `config` field of the genesis, like below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if you are trying to activate the Magma hard fork in your ServiceChain, you should specify the `magmaCompatibleBlock` in `config` field of the genesis, like below.
```

Author: Done, thank you!

> governance.chainConfig.magmaCompatibleBlock
1500
```

# Some Hard Fork specifics <a id="some-hard-fork-specifics"></a>

This section describes some details for a specific hard fork.

## Magma <a id="magma"></a>

The Magma hard fork introduces the KIP-71, dynamic gas fee. It includes the upper and lower bound of the gas price.

By default, the upper bound is set to `750000000000` and the lower bound is set to `25000000000`. You can change those bounds in the Javascript console of SCN nodes using the [governance APIs](../../../dapp/json-rpc/api-references/governance.md).
Obviously, lower bound cannot exceed the upper bound.

To set the gas price to a static value, you have to set the upper and lower bound of the gas price to the same value. For example, you can set gas price to `0`, using `governance.vote` API in the Javascript console of the SCN nodes.

```bash
$ kscn attach ~/kscnd_home/klay.ipc
Welcome to the Klaytn JavaScript console!

instance: Klaytn/vX.X.X/XXXX-XXXX/goX.X.X
 datadir: ~/kscnd_home
 modules: admin:1.0 debug:1.0 eth:1.0 governance:1.0 istanbul:1.0 klay:1.0 net:1.0 personal:1.0 rpc:1.0 txpool:1.0 web3:1.0

> > governance.vote("kip71.lowerboundbasefee", 0)

Reviewer: @kjeom @2dvorak Need to check this one.
Is this vote working before the magmaCompatibleBlock?

Reviewer 2: Yes, it works.

Reviewer: @2dvorak @hyunsooda then, can we put the description somewhere around here?

Reviewer 2: Which description do you mean? If you said that these votings are valid if the current block number is not passed `magmaCompatibleBlock`, it implies there are voting that requires a condition of hard fork activation. I quickly looked at the voting conditions, but it seems no such condition exists.

Reviewer: @hyunsooda 
There are some people that are curious about what happens like below:
1. before hardfork activation, the lower bound is voted.  Let's say it is changed from 250 to 270.
2. the lower bound is updated after 2 epochs are passed.
3. after the hard fork activation, the lower bound is 270. Is this right?

It is unclear whether the governance parameter `kip71.lowerboundbasefee` can be updated before the hard fork activation or not. Someone can think that since the value is meaningless, the protocol can just ignore the update. Or also the value can be updated because anyway the value is a governance parameter.

So, what I wanted to say is that we need to say something like this:

Since the governance parameter is added and is able to be processed after the v1.9.0, the value can be updated even before the hard fork activation.

Reviewer 2: Consequently, do you want us to describe that the governance voting and its update are available regardless of hard fork activation?

Reviewer: @hyunsooda That's right.

Reviewer 2: @2dvorak, Added a short description right below. PTAL.

Author: @hyunsooda Thanks, I added.

"Your vote is prepared. It will be put into the block header or applied when your node generates a block as a proposer. Note that your vote may be duplicate."
> governance.vote("kip71.upperboundbasefee", 0)
"Your vote is prepared. It will be put into the block header or applied when your node generates a block as a proposer. Note that your vote may be duplicate."
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that the governance voting and its update are available regardless of the activation of the Magma hardfork. 
```

Please take a look and feel free to edit it.

Author: Done, added one more sentence to stress that the voting can be done **before** the Magma hard fork activation

> Klaytn and its ServiceChain have constantly released new versions to develop new features and bug fixes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Klaytn and its ServiceChain have constantly released new versions to develop new features and fix bugs.
```

Author: Done, thanks!

> This page shows guides to upgrade ServiceChain binaries and activate hard forks for your ServiceChain.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This page is a guide to upgrade ServiceChain binaries and activate hard forks for your ServiceChain.
```

Reviewer 4: `activate` or `setting hardfork block number?

Author: Done, thanks!

# Upgrade <a id="upgrade"></a>

This section shows how to upgrade the ServiceChain binary.

**NOTE** Upgrading ServiceChain binaries may be irreversible and backward-incompatible, meaning you cannot downgrade to an older version. Refer to the release notes for more details.
For example, the [Klaytn v1.9.0 release note](https://medium.com/klaytn/klaytn-v1-9-0-release-notes-medium-58e4644f7544) says:
> NOTE: This version updates the version of the database to support snapshot sync. You cannot downgrade to the older versions with existing data after updating to v1.9.0.

You can get the latest version of Klaytn and ServiceChain binaries in one of the below links:
- [Klaytn Docs](../../download/README.md)
- [Klaytn Github Repository](https://github.com/klaytn/klaytn/releases)

To upgrade the ServiceChain binary, stop the ServiceChain node and replace the binary.

> For example, you can use below commands to stop an SCN node and replace the binary to a newer one.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For example, you can use below commands to stop an SCN node and replace the binary with a newer one.
```

Author: Done, thanks!

```bash
$ kscnd stop
Shutting down kscnd: OK
$ cp /path/to/new/kscn /path/to/original/kscn
```

> You may restart the ServiceChain node after the upgrade. However, if you are planning the activate a hard fork in the ServiceChain, you have to keep the ServiceChain nodes down. Refer to the [Hard Fork](#hard-fork) for instructions of ServiceChain hard fork.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You may restart the ServiceChain node after the upgrade. However, if you are planning to activate hard fork in the ServiceChain, you have to keep the ServiceChain nodes down. Refer to the [Hard Fork](#hard-fork) for instructions of ServiceChain hard fork.
```

Author: Done, thanks!

```bash
$ kscnd start
```

# Hard Fork <a id="hard-fork"></a>

> This section describe steps for bringing Klaytn [hard forks](../../../klaytn-history/README.md) to ServiceChain.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This section describes steps for bringing Klaytn [hard forks](../../../klaytn-history/README.md) to ServiceChain.
```

Author: Done, thank you.

> This section describes steps for bringing Klaytn [hard forks](../../../klaytn-history/README.md) to ServiceChain.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This section describes the steps for applying Klaytn [hard forks](../../../klaytn-history/README.md) to ServiceChain.
```

Author: Done, thanks!

To apply the hard fork to the ServiceChain, you need to:
1. Pick an appropriate block number for the hard fork
2. Upgrade the ServiceChain binary to a version that supports the hard fork

> 3. Activate the hard fork in the ServiceChain

Reviewer 4: `activate` or `setting hardfork block number?

Author: Done, thanks!

## 1. Pick an appropriate block number for the hard fork <a id="1-pick-an-appropriate-block-number-for-the-hard-fork"></a>

In the Javascript console of the ServiceChain, you can check the current block number as shown below.
```bash
$ kscn attach ~/kscnd_home/klay.ipc
Welcome to the Klaytn JavaScript console!

instance: Klaytn/vX.X.X/XXXX-XXXX/goX.X.X
 datadir: ~/kscnd_home
 modules: admin:1.0 debug:1.0 eth:1.0 governance:1.0 istanbul:1.0 klay:1.0 net:1.0 personal:1.0 rpc:1.0 txpool:1.0 web3:1.0

> klay.blockNumber
1234
```

> Now, you have to decide an appropriate block number to activate the hard fork. Make sure to have enough number of blocks (which is produced every second) between the current block and the block of hard fork.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Now, you have to choose an appropriate block number to activate the hard fork. Make sure to have enough number of blocks (which is produced every second) between the current block and the block of hard fork.
```

Author: Wow, thanks for the correction.

## 2. Upgrade the ServiceChain binary <a id="2-upgrade-the-servicechain-binary"></a>

Refer to the [Upgrade](#upgrade) section in this page for instructions on upgrading the ServiceChain binaries. Make sure to keep the ServiceChain nodes down (or stopped) for now. You will restart them after you have set the hard fork block number.

> ## 3. Activate Hard Fork <a id="3-activate-hard-fork"></a>

Reviewer 4: `activate` or `setting hardfork block number?

Reviewer 4: The following description describes how to set hardfork block number

Author: OK, thanks!

> If you have upgraded the ServiceChain binaries with a version that supports desired hard fork, you can activate the hard fork in the ServiceChain by re-initializing the chain config with updated genesis.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you have upgraded the ServiceChain binaries with a version that supports the desired hard fork, you can activate the hard fork in the ServiceChain by re-initializing the chain config with updated genesis.
```

Author: Done, thanks!

> If you have upgraded the ServiceChain binaries with a version that supports desired hard fork, you can activate the hard fork in the ServiceChain by re-initializing the chain config with updated genesis.

Reviewer 4: `activate` or `setting hardfork block number?

Author: Done, thanks!

### Update genesis and re-initialize chain config for all ServiceChain nodes <a id="update-genesis-and-re-initialize-chain-config-for-all-servicechain-nodes"></a>

First, specify the hard fork number in the `config` field of `genesis.json`.
For example, if you are trying to activate the Magma hard fork in your ServiceChain, you should specify the `magmaCompatibleBlock` in `config` field of the genesis, like below.

```json
{
  "config": {
    "chainId": 1000,
    "istanbulCompatibleBlock": 0,
    ...
    "magmaCompatibleBlock": 1500,
    ...
  },
  ...
}
```

> To enable a hard fork in the chain config, the previous hard forks should be enabled.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To enable a hard fork in the chain config, previous hard forks should be enabled.
```

> To enable a hard fork in the chain config, the previous hard forks should be enabled.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To enable a hard fork in the chain config, previous hard forks should be enabled.
```

Author: Done, thanks!

For example, if you want to set Magma hard fork block number and if your `genesis.json` does not have `ethTxTypeCompatibleBlock` in its `config` field like below:

```json
{
  "config": {
    "chainId": 1000,
    "istanbulCompatibleBlock": 0,
    "londonCompatibleBlock": 0,
    "istanbul": {
      "epoch": 3600,
      "policy":0,
      "sub":21
    },
    ...
  }
}
```

You have to add `ethTxTypeCompatibleBlock` too, when you add `magmaCompatibleBlock` in the `config` field, like below.

```json
{
  "config": {
    "chainId": 1000,
    "istanbulCompatibleBlock": 0,
    "londonCompatibleBlock": 0,
    "ethTxTypeCompatibleBlock": 1500,
    "magmaCompatibleBlock": 1500,
    "istanbul": {
      "epoch": 3600,
      "policy":0,
      "sub":21
    },
    ...
  }
}
```

You can find the history of Klaytn hard forks in the [Klaytn Docs](../../../klaytn-history/README.md).

If you have updated your `genesis.json` with desired hard forks, re-initialize the chain config and apply your change.

```bash
$ kscn --datadir /path/to/data/directory init /path/to/genesis.json
```

> **NOTE** It is normal that the following error log is printed when you re-initialize chain config.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**NOTE** It is normal that the following error log is printed when you re-initialize the chain config.
```

Author: Done, thanks!
